# Plots
Roleplaying game stories should not have a plot in advance. A plot is a sequence of
events, with the causal relationships between them drawn out, and if you have that in advance there is only one thing for the player characters to do. This is a remarkably hard lesson to learn, because all the relevant forms of literature with which we are familiar do have plots, as do a lot of published adventures. Instead, a story needs a set of situations, decisions on what will happen if the player characters do nothing, and decisions on what will happen in response to some of the more obvious possible player actions. Even then, you need to be ready for the player characters to do something unexpected. The better you know the situation, the easier this will be, although some storyguides are naturally very good at winging it.
If possible, you should set up several ways for the player characters to succeed in the adventure, so that the players do have real choices, which don’t come down to “do it the right way or die.” This is related to the next point, the importance of variable outcomes

# Variable Outcomes
You should have at least three possible outcomes for any story: one corresponding to success, another to a neutral performance, and one to failure. Ideally, there should be several degrees of success and failure. This allows you to set up one path as the route to the best success, without dooming the characters if they try something different.
In general, you should also avoid disastrous results for failures, at least unless the players are really, really stupid. If a failure would seriously damage the saga, you should make sure that it is very easy to avoid failing completely. Similar considerations may apply to the survival of magi and companions, although that depends on the attitude that your players have to their characters. (Grogs, on the other hand, are pretty much expected to die.) A disastrous outcome should be foreshadowed with increasing clarity as it gets closer, and ways to mitigate it should become ever more obvious. It is, of course, perfectly acceptable to make a positive outcome impossible if the characters follow a certain route, but disaster should be easy to avoid.
This means thinking of bad results that do not involve the death of beloved characters or the destruction of the covenant. Good options are to take possessions away from the characters, or to injure them so that they lose a lot of study time. You can also inflict longer-term penalties, but such penalties can spoil a player’s enjoyment of a character, so they should be used with caution; the point of a game is to have fun, not to undergo some sort of moral discipline
# Hooks
Possibly the hardest part of an adventure is the beginning. It can be extremely hard for the players to see what they are supposed to do. This means that you need to have at least two possible courses of action in mind when you set up a story. It is a good idea to also think of ways in which you can supply hints if the players are completely floundering. If you have variable degrees of success available, you can give hints to a lesser degree of success, so that the players do benefit from working things out for themselves.
If possible, parts of the adventure should naturally flow into one another. The characters should not simply work out that they need to go to some place; they should work out that they need to go to that place and do something, and then when they do something it becomes clear what their following options are. If you don’t do that, the adventure effectively begins again every time the characters complete the actions that have been made clear so far, and stand  round wondering what to do next. 
A related consideration concerns clues and information. If some information is important to the story, you should have one specific way that the characters can learn it in mind when writing the story. They may learn it another way, but if there is one way that you know will work, then the characters have a reasonable chance of learning the information. In addition, this method should be something that makes sense in the context of the story and saga. Asking the inhabitants of a village about a monster makes sense; going and looking behind the altar in the church does not, unless the monster has been seen coming from there. 
It is surprisingly difficult to judge this, as the elements of stories always look obvious to the storyguide. One rule of thumb is that things need to be more obvious than you think. Beyond that, you can learn from experience what sorts of things occur to your players, and what situations leave them stymied.

# Climaxes
It is good for a story to reach a climax and finish there, rather than petering out. This is, however, very difficult to reconcile with the importance of not having a plot. The best way round it is to work out two or three possible ways to resolve the situation set up in the story, and to make sure that each is a climactic event in which the player characters play a central role. Sometimes this is simply impossible, as only one climax can resolve everything, and most alternatives leave some tidying up. In such a case, the tidying up should be made as trivial as possible, so that it doesn’t need to be played out in detail. For example, if a diabolist has kidnapped the daughter of a local lord, a true climax would be defeating the diabolist in his lair and freeing the girl. If the girl is freed first, then the diabolist should come after the characters, so that the adventure doesn’t end with them simply sneaking out of the lair and making their way home. On the other hand, if the diabolist is killed first, you should make it easy to get into the lair and rescue the girl, so that it can be glossed over in a few sentences. This is probably the most flexible rule. If the players want to play through the aftermath in detail, because they enjoy that sort of roleplaying, you should certainly allow them to do so.

# Story Types
The power level of a saga makes a large difference to the sorts of stories you can easily run. Hermetic magi are extremely flexible, especially once they have a bit of experience. In most cases (see “Saga Speed” on page 219) the power level of a saga will increase over time, and it is best if the style of play changes with it.
For simplicity, this discussion divides stories into three types: reactive, where something happens and the player characters respond; proactive, where the player characters want to do something and go out to make it happen; and soap opera, where the stories arise naturally from the continuing lives of the characters. Obviously, most stories will have elements of all of these types, but the basic distinction is helpful.
- [[Reactive Stories]]
- [[Proactive Stories]]
- [[Soap Opera]]

# Story Ideas
The first question faced by a new Ars Magica storyguide is “What do magi do?” What sort of adventures can you send them on? On the whole, they do not go into cave complexes full of monsters, kill lots of them, and then carry away piles of treasure. On the other hand, they might do that occasionally. This section provides some guidance on stories.
- [[Exploration]]
- [[Treasure Hunting]]
- [[Requests for Assistance]]
- [[Crises at Home]]
- [[Politics Story]]
- [[Quests]]