Grogs are minor characters, often warriors who protect the magi and defend the covenant, but also including specialists such as bookbinders and teachers who are not important enough in the story to be created as companions.
As minor characters, grogs tend to have bad things happen to them. Warrior grogs die defending the magi, other grogs might be possessed by spirits, forced to marry a faerie lord, or die from a disease that threatens the covenant. In most versions of troupe-style play, grogs are played by many different players, and the storyguide sometimes simply tells the players what happened to a grog.
On the other hand, grogs are a great deal of fun to play. You don’t need to worry too much about the consequences of your actions, because you probably won’t be playing this character next week. You can ham up the acting, and have the grog do something stupidly heroic, or heroically stupid. If a grog charges into lone battle against a dragon, in order to defend a magus, he might die in a couple of rounds, in which case he is remembered fondly, or make some stupendously lucky rolls and kill the dragon, in which case he becomes a hero. With a grog, you can take that risk, while with a companion or magus you will probably want to be more cautious. Of course, it’s also fun to play a grog who debates with the magus about the wisdom of staying to face a dragon.
Grogs are normally generated from the grog templates, starting on page 21. They may be created by detailed character creation, but should have no Major Virtues or Flaws, and no more than three Minor Flaws, balanced by an equal number of Minor Virtues. In addition, grogs should not have Story Flaws, as they are supposed to be minor characters. Finally, grogs can never have The Gift. A character with The Gift is too important to be a grog.