Proactive stories are good at any power level. For one thing, you know that at least one player is interested in pursuing the story. For another, if the player wants stories to resolve something, that means that his character cannot trivially achieve it. As a magus increases in power, the character’s ideas get steadily more grandiose, but always remain challenging. These challenges might arise because the character does not want to resolve the story in the easiest way possible. 
As an example, a powerful magi might want to win the friendship of a local monastery, and have it be genuine friendship rather than magically enforced. All at once, the maga’s magical power becomes much less important. She can use it to perform spectacularly helpful acts, but she cannot simply use Creo Mentem to make all the monks love her. Alternatively, a magus might want to make the covenant’s magical aura into a mobile regio, so that they can travel secretly around Europe. Hermetic magic cannot just do this, no matter how high the magus’s Arts are, so he must spend time looking for hidden mysteries and unearthing forgotten secrets. Things that go wrong in his experiments might well require a great deal of power to put right.
In one sense, hooking into these stories is very easy; the players want to do it. In another, it’s very difficult, as getting suggestions out of your players can be like getting blood out of a stone. The best thing to do is just keep asking what the players want their characters to do, until they provide answers on which you can hang a story