Personality Traits are a short description of important features of your character’s personality. For major characters, such as magi and companions, they should be nothing more than an aide memoire, and a reason to think about the character’s personality during character creation. 
For grogs, they are more significant. As grogs are often shared between players, or at least played rarely (see “Troupe-Style Roleplaying” on page 219), the numbers attached to Personality Traits can be used as a concrete guide to playing the character. They can be positive or negative, and normally range between +3 and –3, although there are exceptions. “Loyal” is a particularly important Trait, as it reflects the grog’s attachment to the covenant, while “Brave” is just as important for warrior grogs. A third Trait should be something distinctive about that grog. You may decide to roll a grog’s Personality Traits when you are unsure how he would react, or you may treat the numbers simply as a guide to roleplaying. If you do roll them, add nothing but the Personality Trait, and roll a stress die. Suggested Ease Factors are found on the Personality Rolls table.

# CHANGING PERSONALITY TRAITS
Personality Traits can only be changed by the player who controls the character, and only between game sessions. However, they can be changed freely, possibly to reflect a series of exceptional rolls, or to reflect life events. For example, a cowardly grog who stands his ground and kills an impressive monster might well become more brave.
