Reputations determine whether people are likely to have heard of the character, and what they have heard about him. They don’t determine how people react to characters they have heard of, as that depends on what they think of what they’ve heard, nor do they necessarily aid in the identification of characters. Indeed, in some cases a high Reputation may make it difficult for a character to convince people that he is who he says he is. (“Oh, sure you’re Sir Robert the Dragonslayer. Of course he’d be visiting my inn. Who are you really?”) 
Reputations have a score, a content, and a type. The score is a number, used as described below. The content is what the Reputation is for; a reputation for killing dragons, powerful fire magic, or learned interpretation of the Psalms, for example. The type determines who might have heard of the Reputation. The most basic type is a Local Reputation, which is one that anyone who lives near the character might have heard. The other two main types are Ecclesiastical and Hermetic Reputations, determining a character’s reputation in the Church and Order of Hermes, respectively. The type of Reputation defines what counts as distance.
A random person has heard of a character with a Reputation if a roll of a stress die plus the Reputation equals or exceeds the Ease Factor given on the table above. The more he succeeds by, the more he has heard about the character. If the character’s Reputation is largely accurate, so is what the person has heard. Conversely, a largely underserved Reputation brings lots of false beliefs with it. 
Reputations can change over time. See page 167 for details.