The next step is to have more than one member of the troupe acting as storyguide on a regular basis. One storyguide, the alpha storyguide, is responsible for the overall shape of the saga, and has final veto power on story additions, but one or more beta storyguides take responsibility for specific aspects of the saga. A beta storyguide might be responsible for a particular magical regio, or for a local faerie forest, or for the covenant itself, if the characters have joined an old and large institution. As long as the action remains within that location, the beta storyguide has free rein. Some of the participants are still just players, however.
The big advantage of this style is that the alpha storyguide can have a magus and companion, as long as they are designed to go on the sorts of adventures that the beta storyguide runs. In addition, this version of troupe-style play can handle the alpha storyguide’s absence as easily as that of any other player, as long as there is some advance notice.
The alpha and beta storyguides should make sure that they are agreed on the sort of reward level that is appropriate, and on the tone of the saga and its individual parts. There is nothing wrong with making a faerie forest into a comedic part of a saga, as long as everyone is agreed in advance, but introducing laser guns and spaceships is likely to cause problems.
This style has the additional advantage that events can sometimes surprise everyone, including all the storyguides, when the different plots interact in unexpected ways. This is an advantage, in the same way as unexpected player actions are good for a conventional game, but it does mean that the storyguides need to be very flexible.