Playing with pooled characters means that, in addition to a player’s magi and companions, there is also a “pool” of grogs and bit parts, who can be played by anyone. Thus, on a typical adventure, one player might play his magus, a second her companion, while the other two take grogs from the common pool. 
This has a number of advantages. First, the number of magi in a group tends to be small, which makes them easier to challenge. Second, the covenant staff get to appear on stage, without condemning anyone to playing bit parts all the time. Third, when playing a grog you can cut loose and enjoy yourself. If you overact and ham up your main character, you are likely to end up annoying the other players. On the other hand, a grog who is
hammed up can be restricted to small doses, making him entertaining rather than annoying. More generally, because a grog is not your main character, it is easier to take major risks, or to do things that you know make the character look stupid. The actions of grogs can be some of the most memorable aspects of adventures. It is also possible to run more than one grog at a time, since they can fade into the background while another character takes most of your playing attention.
From the storyguide’s perspective, you can kill grogs to emphasize the seriousness of a situation without killing characters into which the players have invested vast amounts of emotional energy. In games with pooled grogs, grogs are supposed to die. They are played enough for the players to care, but they are not so central that a grog death means a major change in the saga. This applies to other major events; grogs get maimed, go mad, or acquire responsibilities that mean they can no longer go on adventures. 
In this style of game it is very important for each pooled grog to be looked after by a single player for development between sessions. It is probably best to start with just one grog per player, and create more as people get more used to using the advancement systems. The player managing the grog’s downtime activities gets to say what he does in his time off, and as the number of grogs grows some troupes enjoy spending time on the soap-operatic aspects of the relations between the grogs and the magi.
It is important to remember that Ars Magica’s advancement system means that characters do not fall behind in power when they are not played, so that players’ primary characters do not lose out when the players are running grogs.
Another major advantage of this style of play is that it can easily handle player absences, particularly if the player warns the troupe in advance. As long as the troupe can get that player’s main characters home before the session for which the player is absent, there is no problem at all, just one fewer people to play grogs. The system can even handle players leaving for years to work overseas; their characters fade into the background, spending all their time in the lab, and then can rejoin the saga when the player gets back, still at the same sort of power level as the characters who have been played. 
Of course, the game does still rely on the storyguide being available.